# PFC-ELO
Robot control via deep learning based gesture recognition, Wi-Fi communication and microcontrollers

# Summary

This work consists of two main phases in order to control robots. Initially, as the firstphase of the project, a simpler approach was taken, in a way that the robot was controlledvia smartphone, using accelerometer data extracted from it. Once this mark was achieved,the need for incrementing this work in order to make the control more robust and easierin the final product became clear. With that purpose, a new phase in the project beganwhere the focus was in controlling the robot via gesture recognition. To accomplish thegoals and challenges brought by this new phase, a great number of convolutionla neuralnetworks were trained, using Deep Learning and in accordance to the relevant metricssuch as accuracy, F1-score and inference time, the best model was selected. In that way,the control system is composed by a user that controls the robot by executing gestures infront of a computer webcam so that these are processed by this Artificial Intelligence e thecommand associated to the gesture is then sent via internet to a Raspberry Pi 3 locatedin the robot which in turn receives those commands and sends them to an arduino alsolocated in the robot, so that it controls the motors accordingly. Furthermore, a webcam isplaced on the robot and connected to the Raspberry in order to send back visual feedbackto the user so the robot can be controlled even if it is in a different location than thecontroller.In a broader point of view, the work has the general goal of provide a solution to thedemand of activities that present high risk to humans while also presenting an alternativeto activities that require human presence in order to be accomplished. Exemples of theseactivities could be firefighters rescues i buildings or highly damaged structure locationspresenting a high risk to people entrance and also the possibility of execution of medicalprocedures or operations done from distance, without the physician responsible necessarilybeing physically present.Keywords: Artificial Intelligence. Deep Learning. Gesture recognition. ConvolutionalNeural Networks. Wi-Fi Communication. Raspberry pi 3. Microcontrollers. DC Motors.
